1923. Longest Common Subpath

There is a country of `n` cities numbered from `0` to `n - 1`. In this country, there is a road connecting **every pair** of cities.

There are `m` friends numbered from `0` to `m - 1` who are traveling through the country. Each one of them will take a path consisting of some cities. Each path is represented by an integer array that contains the visited cities in order. The path may contain a city **more than once**, but the same city will not be listed consecutively.

Given an integer `n` and a 2D integer array `paths` where `paths[i]` is an integer array representing the path of the `i`th friend, return the length of the **longest common subpath** that is shared by every friend's path, or `0` if there is no common subpath at all.

A **subpath** of a path is a contiguous sequence of cities within that path.

 

**Example 1:**
```
Input: n = 5, paths = [[0,1,2,3,4],
                       [2,3,4],
                       [4,0,1,2,3]]
Output: 2
Explanation: The longest common subpath is [2,3].
```

**Example 2:**
```
Input: n = 3, paths = [[0],[1],[2]]
Output: 0
Explanation: There is no common subpath shared by the three paths.
```

**Example 3:**
```
Input: n = 5, paths = [[0,1,2,3,4],
                       [4,3,2,1,0]]
Output: 1
Explanation: The possible longest common subpaths are [0], [1], [2], [3], and [4]. All have a length of 1.
```

**Constraints:**

* `1 <= n <= 10^5`
* `m == paths.length`
* `2 <= m <= 10^5`
* `sum(paths[i].length) <= 10^5`
* `0 <= paths[i][j] < n`
* The same city is not listed multiple times consecutively in `paths[i]`.

# Submissions
---
**Solution 1: (Hash Table, Rolling Hash)**

For me when I see this problem I thought about problem 1044. Longest Duplicate Substring https://leetcode.com/problems/longest-duplicate-substring/discuss/695029/python-binary-search-with-rabin-karp-o(n-log-n)-explained, so I tried to implement this idea and I succeded in the end. I hope it will not be rejudged after contes, because this is randomized algorithm.

The idea is given length of substring of length M create rolling hashes and then check if we have the same hash for all elements in paths. We will use binary search to do search of M. The main difficulty here is that we have not letters from a to z but numbers from 1 to potentially 100000, so probability of collision can be quite high. That is why I chose several different primes around 2^31 and check calculate hashes for each of them. In this way we can be sure, that if we get that we have the same hashes for each of this modules, it means that paths are equal. Also we can do early stoppings to break as soon as it happens that intersections of hashes sets is empty.


Update Actually, evaluating hash with two given numbers is equavalent to evaluation hash to multiplication of this numbers. In python we can use as big number as possible, so if we choose big enough module we will pass. However how exaclty to choose this magical module is a good question: I choose number around 2^128 and it works fine for given tests. However we still can have collisions, and I think there is nothing we can do with it because of test case 71: we have paths = [[1, 0]*k, [0,1]*k] and when we evaluate hashes we have a lot of equal hashes for each of two persons. If we want to really compare strings we need to check O(k) options for each person, each of length O(M) and if M > k/2 (and it is, because anser is 2k-1), then we have complexity like O(k^2 * log k) for full algorithm, which is impossible to get without TLE. So what is the solution? Use different method, like suffix tries.

**Complexity**

We need O(K) time to calculate all hashes for given M, where K = sum(paths[i].length) is total length of paths. We do binary search, so we have O(K * log T * Q) complexity, where T is the smallest length among paths and Q is number of hashes we calculated.

```
Runtime: 2376 ms
Memory Usage: 58.3 MB
```
```python
class Solution:
    def longestCommonSubpath(self, n: int, paths: List[List[int]]) -> int:
        def RabinKarp(arr, M, q):
            h, t, d = (1<<(17*M-17))%q, 0, 1<<17
            all_hashes = set()

            for i in range(M): 
                t = (d * t + arr[i])% q

            all_hashes.add(t)

            for i in range(len(arr) - M):
                t = (d*(t-arr[i]*h) + arr[i + M])% q
                all_hashes.add(t)

            return all_hashes
    
        m, mod = len(paths), (1<<128) - 159
        beg, end = 0, min(len(p) for p in paths) + 1
        
        while beg + 1 < end:
            mid = (beg + end)//2
            tt = set.intersection(*[RabinKarp(p, mid, mod) for p in paths])

            if len(tt) != 0:
                beg = mid
            else:
                end = mid

        return beg
```
