1883. Minimum Skips to Arrive at Meeting On Time

You are given an integer `hoursBefore`, the number of hours you have to travel to your meeting. To arrive at your meeting, you have to travel through `n` roads. The road lengths are given as an integer array `dist` of length `n`, where `dist[i]` describes the length of the `i`th road in **kilometers**. In addition, you are given an integer `speed`, which is the speed (in **km/h**) you will travel at.

After you travel road `i`, you must rest and wait for the **next integer hour** before you can begin traveling on the next road. Note that you do not have to rest after traveling the last road because you are already at the meeting.

* For example, if traveling a road takes `1.4` hours, you must wait until the `2` hour mark before traveling the next road. If traveling a road takes exactly `2` hours, you do not need to wait.

However, you are allowed to **skip**s some rests to be able to arrive on time, meaning you do not need to wait for the next integer hour. Note that this means you may finish traveling future roads at different hour marks.

* For example, suppose traveling the first road takes `1.4` hours and traveling the second road takes `0.6` hours. Skipping the rest after the first road will mean you finish traveling the second road right at the `2` hour mark, letting you start traveling the third road immediately.

Return the **minimum number of skips required** to arrive at the meeting on time, or `-1` if it is **impossible**.

 

**Example 1:**
```
Input: dist = [1,3,2], speed = 4, hoursBefore = 2
Output: 1
Explanation:
Without skipping any rests, you will arrive in (1/4 + 3/4) + (3/4 + 1/4) + (2/4) = 2.5 hours.
You can skip the first rest to arrive in ((1/4 + 0) + (3/4 + 0)) + (2/4) = 1.5 hours.
Note that the second rest is shortened because you finish traveling the second road at an integer hour due to skipping the first rest.
```

**Example 2:**
```
Input: dist = [7,3,5,5], speed = 2, hoursBefore = 10
Output: 2
Explanation:
Without skipping any rests, you will arrive in (7/2 + 1/2) + (3/2 + 1/2) + (5/2 + 1/2) + (5/2) = 11.5 hours.
You can skip the first and third rest to arrive in ((7/2 + 0) + (3/2 + 0)) + ((5/2 + 0) + (5/2)) = 10 hours.
```

**Example 3:**
```
Input: dist = [7,3,5,5], speed = 1, hoursBefore = 10
Output: -1
Explanation: It is impossible to arrive at the meeting on time even if you skip all the rests.
```

**Constraints:**

* `n == dist.length`
* `1 <= n <= 1000`
* `1 <= dist[i] <= 10^5`
* 1` <= speed <= 10^6`
* `1 <= hoursBefore <= 10^7`

# Submissions
---
**Solution 1: (DP Top-Down)**

Let us use dynamic programming here with the following states, we have dp(i, k), where:

1. i is the number of roads we traversed so far.
1. j is number of skips we did.
1. output of this function is minimum arriving time.

Note, that because times can be not-integer, we want to multiply everything by speed S, so we will work only with integers from now on. Let us discuss function dp(i, k) now:

1. If k < 0, it means, we out of skips, we made more skips than it was possible and we need to return infinity.
1. If i < 0, it means that we did not traverse any road, so we spend 0 time for this.
1. Finally, there can be two options: we can make skip the break and then we have dist[i] + dp(i-1, k-1) time or we do not skip it. If we do not skip break, we need to round up our time to the nearest bigger number divisible by S.

**Complexity**

We have O(n^2) states with at most 2 transitions from one to others, so time and space complexity is O(n^2).

```
Runtime: 1264 ms
Memory Usage: 281.2 MB
```
```python
class Solution:
    def minSkips(self, dist: List[int], speed: int, hoursBefore: int) -> int:
        
        @lru_cache(None)
        def dp(i, k):
            if k < 0: return float("inf")
            if i < 0: return 0
            return dist[i] + min(dp(i-1, k-1), (dp(i-1, k) + speed - 1)//speed*speed)
        
        if sum(dist) > speed*hoursBefore: return -1
        n = len(dist)
        return next(k for k in range(n+1) if dp(n - 1, k) <= hoursBefore*speed)
```