3999. Minimum Number of String Groups Through Transformations

You are given an array of strings `words`.

Define a **transformation** on a string `s` as follows:

* Let `E` be the **subsequence** of characters at even indices of `s`.
* Let `O` be the **subsequence** of characters at odd indices of `s`.
* **Independently** cyclically shift `E` and `O` by **any** number of positions to the right, possibly zero.
* Reconstruct the string by placing the shifted `E` characters back into even indices and the shifted `O` characters back into odd indices.

Two strings are **equivalent** if one can be transformed into the other by a **single** transformation.

Partition `words` into the **minimum** number of groups such that:

* Every string belongs to **exactly** one group.
* Every pair of strings in the same group are **equivalent**.

Return an integer denoting the **minimum** number of groups.

 

**Example 1:**
```
Input: words = ["ntgwz","zwntg"]

Output: 1

Explanation:

For "ntgwz", the even-index subsequence is "ngz" and the odd-index subsequence is "tw".
Shift "ngz" right by 1 position to obtain "zng", and shift "tw" right by 1 position to obtain "wt".
After reconstructing the string, we obtain "zwntg".
Therefore, both strings are equivalent and belong to the same group.
```

**Example 2:**
```
Input: words = ["abc","cab","bac","acb","bca","cba"]

Output: 3

Explanation:

The strings can be partitioned into the following groups:

["abc","cba"]
["cab","bac"]
["acb","bca"]
```

**Example 3:**
```
Input: words = ["leet","abb","bab","deed","edde","code","bba"]

Output: 5

Explanation:

The strings can be partitioned into the following groups:

["abb","bba"]
["deed","edde"]
["leet"]
["bab"]
["code"]
All pairs of strings in each group are equivalent.
```
 

**Constraints:**

* `1 <= words.length <= 10^5`
* `1 <= words[i].length <= 5 * 10^5`
* The sum of `words[i].length` does not exceed `5 * 10^5`.
* `words[i]` consist of lowercase English letters.

# Submissions
---
**Solution 1: (Sliding Window, Rolling Hash + Set)**

__Intuition__
The problem allows us to independently cyclically shift the characters at even indices (E) and odd indices (O). Therefore, two strings are equivalent if and only if their E subsequences are cyclic shifts of each other, and their O subsequences are cyclic shifts of each other.
E.g: acca caac

We can cyclic shift acca right by two places to get caac :
acca->aacc->caac.

Then the question arises how de we find out that one string is cyclic shift of the other. The trick is to concatenate the string with itself and look for the substring inside the doubled string. Consider the same exaple above but let's concatenate acca with itself.

acca + acca => accaacca. If we traverse through this string we can easily find all the cycling strings possible for this string as its substring. ac(caac)cca -> caac exists as its substring.

The problem states that you can shift characters at even indices independently of those at odd indices. This is a massive simplification because it means you do not have to figure out how the whole string moves at once.

Because shifting E doesn't change the order or position of characters in O, we can completely split the problem in half. Instead of asking, "Is string A a valid transformation of string B?" we ask two simpler questions:

Is E_A a cyclic shift of E_B ?
Is O_A a cyclic shift of O_B ?
If the answer to both is yes, the strings belong in the same group.

To group them efficiently, we need a canonical representation or ID
for the entire group. If every string in a group agrees on the exact same ID, we can just look at the ID card to know which group a string belongs to.

To select this unique ID we can simply calculate the minimum hash value from every cyclic shift of the string and it will act as the ID for the entire group. This ID is guarenteed to be unique since we use a rolling hash which generates unique hash for each sequence of characters.

E.g:
Hash of acca = 450
Hash of ccaa = 800
Hash of caac = 300
Hash of aacc = 150

Canonical ID chosen: 150

A standard hash function would require reading the entire string from scratch for every single cyclic shift. If the string length is M, checking M shifts takes O(M 
2
 ) time.A Rolling Hash (specifically the Rabin-Karp algorithm) reduces this to O(M) time. By doubling the string (s + s), we can view cyclic shifts as a sliding window.When the window slides one position to the right, we don't recalculate the hash from scratch. We simply:Remove the mathematical value of the character that fell out of the left side.Multiply the rest by the base.Add the mathematical value of the new character on the right.This allows us to generate the hash for a new cyclic shift in O(1) time. We roll through the doubled string, keep track of the absolute smallest hash value we see, and assign that integer as the canonical ID for that half of the word.

By pairing the minimum hash of E with the minimum hash of O, we get a integer pair {evHash, odHash} that uniquely identifies the exact group the original string belongs to.

Approach
For each word, extract characters at even indices and characters at odd indices.

To calculate the hashes of all cyclic shifts efficiently, we double the string (s + s) and slide a window of size M (the original string's length) across it. We compute the hash of the first window. Then, we can compute the hash of the next window in O(1) time.

For each word, find the minimum hash for its even part and its odd part. Store this {evHash, odHash} pair in a set. Because identical cyclic shifts will produce the same pair of minimum hashes, the final size of the set will give us the number of unique groups.

__Complexity__
* Time complexity: O(ΣL+NlogN), where N is the total number of words and ΣL is the sum of the lengths of all words. Splitting the string and computing the rolling hashes using the sliding window takes linear time relative to the length of the string. Inserting the resulting {evHash, odHash} pair into the set takes O(logN) time per word.
* Space complexity: O(N+L_max), where L_max is the length of the longest word in the array. The set stores up to N pairs of integers, taking O(N) space. Generating the doubled string for the rolling hash temporarily requires O(L_max) auxiliary space.

```
Runtime: 345 ms, Beats 43.79%
Memory: 162.56 MB, Beats 95.31%
```
```c++
class Solution {
    const int MOD = 1e9 + 7;
    const int RADIX = 26;
    typedef long long ll;

    ll powr(ll a, ll b) {

        ll res = 1;
        while (b) {
            if (b & 1)
                res = (res * a) % MOD;

            a = (a * a) % MOD;
            b >>= 1;
        }

        return res;
    }

    ll calcHash(string& s) {
        if (s.empty()) // For 1 length words odd indices will be empty
            return 0;

        int m = s.length();
        string doubled = s + s;
        ll currHash = 0;

        ll mul = powr(RADIX, m);

        for (int i = 0; i < m; i++) // Calculate hash up to original length of string 
            currHash = (currHash * RADIX + (doubled[i] - 'a')) % MOD;

        ll minHash = currHash;

        for (int i = 1; i < m; i++) { // Calculate subsequent hashesh by sliding the window and tracking the min of all hashes
            currHash = (currHash * RADIX) % MOD;
            ll subtract = ((doubled[i - 1] - 'a') * mul) % MOD;
            currHash = (currHash - subtract + MOD) % MOD;
            currHash = (currHash + (doubled[i + m - 1] - 'a')) % MOD;

            minHash = min(minHash, currHash);
        }

        return minHash;
    }
public:
    int minimumGroups(vector<string>& words) {
        int n = words.size();
        set<pair<ll, ll>> groups; //set to store unique even and hodd hash pair

        for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
            string str = words[i], odStr = "", evStr = "";

            for (int j = 0; j < str.length(); j += 2) {
                evStr.push_back(str[j]);
            }

            for (int j = 1; j < str.length(); j += 2) {
                odStr.push_back(str[j]);
            }

            ll evHash = calcHash(evStr);
            ll odHash = calcHash(odStr);

            groups.insert({evHash, odHash}); //only insert unique hash pair  
        }

        return groups.size(); //size of set gives total no. of groups
    }
};
```
