1960. Maximum Product of the Length of Two Palindromic Substrings

You are given a **0-indexed** string `s` and are tasked with finding two **non-intersecting palindromic** substrings of **odd** length such that the product of their lengths is maximized.

More formally, you want to choose four integers `i, j, k, l` such that `0 <= i <= j < k <= l < s`.length and both the substrings `s[i...j]` and `s[k...l]` are palindromes and have odd lengths. `s[i...j]` denotes a substring from index `i` to index `j` **inclusive**.

Return the **maximum** possible product of the lengths of the two non-intersecting palindromic substrings.

A **palindrome** is a string that is the same forward and backward. A **substring** is a contiguous sequence of characters in a string.

 

**Example 1:**
```
Input: s = "ababbb"
Output: 9
Explanation: Substrings "aba" and "bbb" are palindromes with odd length. product = 3 * 3 = 9.
```

**Example 2:**
```
Input: s = "zaaaxbbby"
Output: 9
Explanation: Substrings "aaa" and "bbb" are palindromes with odd length. product = 3 * 3 = 9.
```

**Constraints:**

* `2 <= s.length <= 10^5`
* `s` consists of lowercase English letters.

# Submissions
---
**Solution 1: (O(n) Manacher's)**

In this problem we deal with palindromes, so it is good idea to think about Manachers algorithm, because the length of our string is quite big. For more details, you can go to wikipedia, imagine now that we have result already for manacher algorithm and now we want to work with results it gave to us. On leetcode contest you do not need to code it youself, you can find template online, and you should know how to use it. Let us consider string

`abayabyxaba`,

then we have the following result:

`[1, 3, 1, 5, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 3, 1]`

That is for index `0` we have palindrome `a`, for index `2` it is `aba`, then `a`, then `bayab` and so on. What we need to do with this information? Let us construct intervals:
`ints = [(0, 0), (0, 2), (2, 2), (1, 5), (4, 4), (5, 5), (6, 6), (7, 7), (8, 8), (8, 10), (10, 10)]` it is the size of biggest intervals for each middle point.

Now, we need to solve the following problem: let us fix point `i`, so all string `s` will be separated into two parts:
`----------|---------`. What we want to find is the biggest length of palindrom on the left and the biggest length of palindrome on the right, multiply them and do it for every `i` we have. If we do it directly, we will have `O(n^2)`, so we need to think about something better.

Let us ask the question: given `i`, what is the maximum length of palindrome, which we meet before `i`?

1. Create empty array `arr1 = [0]*n`
1. For `a`, `b` in `ints`, that is for all intervals we have, update `arr1[b]` with length of interval. It can happen, that we have several intervals ending on the same points, so we use max here. After this update we have `[1, 0, 3, 0, 1, 5, 1, 1, 1, 0, 3]`.
1. It is imortant, and I forgot it on contest, and was not able to do it on time: we need to check `arr1[i+1] - 2` for each element. Imagine, that we have `[1, 1, 3, 1, 3, 5, 1, 1, 1, 1, 3]`. Note for example that `arr1[4]` was equal to `1` because there is only one segment ending with it. However `arr1[5] = 5` and we have `.bayab...`, so we can be sure that length of palindrome ending with place `4` is at least `arr1[5] - 2 = 3`.
1. Finally, we need to evaluate cumulative maximums of `arr1: [1, 1, 3, 3, 3, 5, 5, 5, 5, 5, 5]`. Now what we have is answer for the question: given `i`, what is the maximum lengh of palindrome lying before `i`.

Now, we need to do exaclty the same logic for question: what is the maximum length of palindrome after `i`? We can use exactly the same function `helper` and reverse results!

Finally, when we have answer for two questions: what is the maximum length of palindrome after i? and what is the maximum length of palindrome before `i`? - we can iterate over all indexes `i` and return max.

**Complexity**

It is `O(n)` to apply manacher and then we have several `O(n)` passes, so total complexity is O(n) both for time and space.

```
Runtime: 2864 ms
Memory Usage: 38.7 MB
```
```python
class Solution:
    def maxProduct(self, s: str) -> int:
        
        def manachers(S):
            A = '@#' + '#'.join(S) + '#$'
            Z = [0] * len(A)
            center = right = 0
            for i in range(1, len(A) - 1):
                if i < right:
                    Z[i] = min(right - i, Z[2 * center - i])
                while A[i + Z[i] + 1] == A[i - Z[i] - 1]:
                    Z[i] += 1
                if i + Z[i] > right:
                    center, right = i, i + Z[i]
            return Z[2:-2:2]

        def helper(s):
            man, n = manachers(s), len(s)
            ints = [(i - man[i]//2, i + man[i]//2) for i in range(n)]
            arr = [0]*n
            for a, b in ints: 
                arr[b] = max(arr[b], b - a + 1)
            for i in range(n-2, -1, -1):
                arr[i] = max(arr[i], arr[i + 1] - 2)
            return list(accumulate(arr, max))
        
        t1, t2 = helper(s), helper(s[::-1])[::-1][1:] + [0]   
        return max(x*y for x, y in zip(t1, t2))
```
