1830. Minimum Number of Operations to Make String Sorted

You are given a string `s` (**0-indexed**). You are asked to perform the following operation on `s` until you get a sorted string:

1. Find **the largest index** `i` such that `1 <= i < s.length` and `s[i] < s[i - 1]`.
1. Find **the largest index** `j` such that `i <= j < s.length` and `s[k] < s[i - 1]` for all the possible values of `k` in the range `[i, j]` inclusive.
1. Swap the two characters at indices `i - 1` and `j`.
1. Reverse the suffix starting at index `i`.

Return the number of operations needed to make the string sorted. Since the answer can be too large, return it modulo `10^9 + 7`.

 

**Example 1:**
```
Input: s = "cba"
Output: 5
Explanation: The simulation goes as follows:
Operation 1: i=2, j=2. Swap s[1] and s[2] to get s="cab", then reverse the suffix starting at 2. Now, s="cab".
Operation 2: i=1, j=2. Swap s[0] and s[2] to get s="bac", then reverse the suffix starting at 1. Now, s="bca".
Operation 3: i=2, j=2. Swap s[1] and s[2] to get s="bac", then reverse the suffix starting at 2. Now, s="bac".
Operation 4: i=1, j=1. Swap s[0] and s[1] to get s="abc", then reverse the suffix starting at 1. Now, s="acb".
Operation 5: i=2, j=2. Swap s[1] and s[2] to get s="abc", then reverse the suffix starting at 2. Now, s="abc".
```

**Example 2:**
```
Input: s = "aabaa"
Output: 2
Explanation: The simulation goes as follows:
Operation 1: i=3, j=4. Swap s[2] and s[4] to get s="aaaab", then reverse the substring starting at 3. Now, s="aaaba".
Operation 2: i=4, j=4. Swap s[3] and s[4] to get s="aaaab", then reverse the substring starting at 4. Now, s="aaaab".
```

**Example 3:**
```
Input: s = "cdbea"
Output: 63
```

**Example 4:**
```
Input: s = "leetcodeleetcodeleetcode"
Output: 982157772
```

**Constraints:**

* `1 <= s.length <= 3000`
* `s` consists only of lowercase English letters.

# Submissions
---
**Solution 1: (Math)**

Actually, what is asked in this problem is given string understand what is the lexicographical order of this string. For example we have abc, acb, bac, bca, cab, cba, then order of string cab is 4 (we start from zero). However, the main difficulty of this problem is that:

1. We can have n = 3000, so we expect to have linear or linearithmic complexity.
1. We have repeating symbols and here we need to use combinatorics.

I tried to sumbit like 5 different O(n^2) approaches, but they are not working on python as you can guess, so I was forces to think about something better. Let us look at string cabbcdba for simplicity. We need to find how many string there is before this string in lexicographcal order.

1. Strings, start with a or b should be OK for sure, so what we need to do is to find how many symbols less than c we have. Total number of strings is 5 * 7!, because we have two options for the first place and others we can put whatever we want. Also, we have b 3, a 2 times and c 2 times. So, we need to divide total number of options by 2! * 3! * 3!. Google multinomial coefficients for more details. So, total number of options here is 5 * 7!/2!/2!/3!.
1. Now look at strings starts with c. There is not symbols, less than a, so here answer is 0.
1. Now look at strings starts with ca, next symbols should be a and we have only one options here. So, total number of options is 1 * 5!/3!, because we have b 3 times among the rest symbols we did not used yet.
1. And so on

To achieve good complexity we will use the fact that our string consist only 26 letters. Also we start our process from the end: in this way it will be possible to keep cnt array of frequencies and update it and calculate sum(cnt[:ind]): number of elements smaller than given one. Also, we need to work with 10^9 + 7 module, which is hopefully prime, so we can use Fermat little theorem to make fast divisions given this module. To divide number by q is the same as multiply it by q^(N-2) % N.

**Complexity**
If we have n the length of string s and m is the size of alphabet, we have complexity O(nm). There is also part where we canculate pow, but it is done in logarithmic time and at most 26 times at each iteration, so it will be smaller than the first term. Also f(i) will be called with parameters less than n, so no more than n times and we use memoisation.

```
Runtime: 708 ms
Memory Usage: 27 MB
```
```python
class Solution:
    @lru_cache(None)
    def _f(self,i):
        return 1 if i <= 1 else (self._f(i-1)*i) % (10**9+7)
    
    @lru_cache(None)
    def _inv(self, i):
        N = 10**9 + 7
        return pow(i, N-2, N)
    
    def makeStringSorted(self, s: str) -> int:
        N, n, out = 10**9 + 7, len(s), 0
        cnt = [0]*26
        for i in range(n-1, -1, -1):
            ind = ord(s[i]) - ord("a")
            cnt[ind] += 1
            ans = sum(cnt[:ind]) * self._f(n-i-1)
            for i in range(26):
                ans = ans * self._inv(self._f(cnt[i])) % N
            out += ans
        return out % N
```